---
title: Security and Data Recovery 
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2017-11-25
status: draft
belief: likely 
tags: 
  - computing
---

> During intervals of the night, when anxiety had kept him waking, the same idea had occured to him; concealment was his only security[.] [^radcliffe]

[^radcliffe]: [The Romance of the Forest](https://archive.org/details/romanceforestby00radcgoog), Ann Radcliffe, 1791

As I move more information online, what information do I need to encrypt? to back-up? 

Currently, my personal files are backed up to an unencrypted hard drive and, if public, hosted redundantly on github.

## Security Goals

- hosting my website on linode and adding a public key certificate
- understanding and implementing PGP for emails
- symmetric encryption for personal documents

##  

Having worked at a refugee resettlement agency, I believe the following documents should be redunantly (and securely) stored online. Maybe also on optical disk?

- national origin documents
- medical records
- financial history


## Privacy

I need to [save my passwords](http://msmtp.sourceforge.net/doc/msmtp.html#Authentication) in the GNOME keyring. I'd also like to create a [PGP key](ttps://pgp.mit.edu) to share.

To make strong passwords, I also need to understand Shannon Entropy. 
- [pthree](https://pthree.org/)

From [Scott Aaronson](https://www.scottaaronson.com/writings/plogp.html).

<pre>
 I was reading an obituary of Shannon, 
 asking myself: 
 why did it take till 1948?
 That the semantics of a message 
 are irrelevant to how to transmit it, 
 that the distribution from which the message was 
 chosen is all that matters, 
 is obvious. 
</pre>

## See Also

- [Complexity Zoo](https://complexityzoo.uwaterloo.ca/Complexity_Zoo)
- [riseup.net](https://riseup.net/en/security/network-security/certificates)

## Meta 

I think I'm mentally overstimulated managing three computing devices. The worst of it has to do with the browsers (since so much of my work now is with web-based applications).

Pros: they're all UNIX-like environments, I get experience with version control on many machine, etc.

Cons: I hate configuring settings over and over, I'm also finding loopholes in my productive process (just bumped an [open bug report to disable guest browsing on chromium](https://productforums.google.com/forum/#!msg/chrome-admins/RHF22jqINBw/J9uqnYpfCQAJ) so that I can't take mental vacations and pretend I'm somebody else online).

At the same time, by insisting on a browser with *one* user, plus extensions, and *no* guests, I feel antiquated and modest.

There's the anxiety of losing my identity (or just wiping slate and coming back as pure ego) in guest browsing. I think of Volpone's reveal and attempted seduction of Celia (with her protesting on moral grounds his gregarious carnal appetite). 

From Ben Jonson's [Volpone](https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4039/4039.txt)

<pre>
... my dwarf shall dance,
My eunuch sing, my fool make up the antic.
Whilst we, in changed shapes, act Ovid's tales,
Thou, like Europa now, and I like Jove,
Then I like Mars, and thou like Erycine:
So, of the rest, till we have quite run through,
And wearied all the fables of the gods.
Then will I have thee in more modern forms,
...

And I will meet thee in as many shapes:
Where we may so transfuse our wandering souls,
Out at our lips, and score up sums of pleasures,
...

CEL: If you have ears that will be pierc'd—or eyes
That can be open'd—a heart that may be touch'd—
Or any part that yet sounds man about you—
If you have touch of holy saints—or heaven—
Do me the grace to let me 'scape—if not,
Be bountiful and kill me.
</pre>

I just think that keeping one browser with heavy extensions, or some old fashioned virtue, would save me from "metamorphic overstimulation" (which is always threatening). 

On the other hand, I don't want to waste my effort maintaining such virtue (or, by analogy in this case, ensuring that chromium extensions are always running in my browser). There's some question that I could even maintain virtue alone. When I worked as a dishwasher, I was painfully aware that the machine couldn't clean itself, and that *I*, some sort of mysterious external agent to the dishwasher, had to work my way into its innards to refresh the food trap and spray down the wash nozzles themselves.

To really police myself, I'd have to recruit some external agent, deferring onto a hierarchical structure I might later regret having gotten wrapped up in. In terms of biopower, I might even have to "get medieval".

From [Discipline and Punish](https://zulfahmed.files.wordpress.com/2013/12/disciplineandpunish.pdf), Foucault (translated by Alan Sheridan), pp. 196, Vintage.

> Every day, too, the syndic goes into the street for which he is responsible; stops before each house: gets all the inhabitants to appear at the windows (those who live overlooking the courtyard will be allocated a window looking onto the street at which no one but they may show themselves); he calls each of them by name; informs himself as to the state of each and every one of them - ‘in which respect the inhabitants will be compelled to speak the truth under pain o f death’; if someone does not appear at the window, the syndic must ask why: ‘In this w ay he will find out easily enough whether dead or sick are being concealed. Everyone locked up in his cage, everyone at his window, answering to his name and showing himself when asked - it is the great review of the living and the dead.

Well, [Tie me up! Untie me!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y3Xp_9EGz2c)

I *do* think I'll just pack up and move to an OS with one extensible browser. But then, too, I'll probably also have the self-control to get off the internet by 8pm.
