---
title: SageMath
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2018-03-04
---

Specifications of my SageMath installation (on macOS).

## Installation notes

I installed Sage from binary. Using the command `sage -n jupyter` was fine for
opening the Jupyter notebook interface. 

I later realized I wanted `nbextensions` to run on all my Jupyter notebooks. I
then installed `nbextensions` with `conda`. 

I discovered that Sage uses its own version of the Jupyter notebook, whence I
needed to [install sagemath as a kernel in Jupyter](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39296020/how-to-install-sagemath-kernel-in-jupyter). I followed [Samuel Lelièvre](https://stackoverflow.com/users/3827575/samuel-leli%c3%a8vre)'s edited process
```
sudo jupyter kernelspec install ./SageMath/local/share/jupyter/kernels/sagemath
```
> Where SageMath is your root sagemath directory.

In my case `/Applications/SageMath/`. Further, they advised t

> ...edit the `kernel.json` file to make the SageMath Jupyter kernel aware of SageMath's location, by adding `"env":{"SAGE_ROOT":"/path/to/sage"}` at the end of the dictionary in `kernel.json`. 
>
> You will find the location of `kernel.json` by executing `jupyter kernelspec list`.

In my case, I find this file in `/usr/local/share/jupyter/kernels/sagemath`.
`kernel.json` requires admin permissions to write. My `kernel.json` now reads

```
{
 "display_name": "SageMath 8.0", 
 "argv": [
  "/Applications/SageMath/local/bin/sage", 
  "--python", 
  "-m", 
  "sage.repl.ipython_kernel", 
  "-f", 
  "{connection_file}"], 
 "env":{"SAGE_ROOT":"/Applications/SageMath/"}
}
```

whence SageMath is loaded as a kernel in the (standard) Jupyter Notebook.

In turn, I can use SageMath in a customized Jupyter Notebook. Namely, I have text-edit interface `nbextensions` 

## see also

- [Installing the SageMath Jupyter Kernel and Extensions](http://doc.sagemath.org/html/en/reference/repl/sage/repl/ipython_kernel/install.html)
- [Making Kernels for
  Jupyter](http://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/stable/kernels.html)
- Ch. 2, [“Sage Installation Guide - installation.pdf”](http://doc.sagemath.org/pdf/en/installation/installation.pdf) Retrieved March 4, 2018.
