---
title: bang expressions on DuckDuckGo
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2018-08-12
---

Appealing to the collective wisdom of non-google searchers, here's a curated table of bang expressions available on duckduckgo. 

- ACL Anthology ` !acl ` [“What is the ACL and what is Computational Linguistics? ACL Member Portal”](https://www.aclweb.org/portal/what-is-cl). “The Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) is the premier international scientific and professional society for people working on computational problems involving human language, a field often referred to as either computational linguistics or natural language processing (NLP). The association was founded in 1962, originally named the Association for Machine Translation and Computational Linguistics (AMTCL), and became the ACL in 1968. Activities of the ACL include the holding of an annual meeting each summer and the sponsoring of the journal Computational Linguistics, published by MIT Press; this conference and journal are the leading publications of the field. For more information, see: https://www.aclweb.org/.”
- ACM Guide ` !acm ` [“The ACM Guide to Computing Literature”](https://libraries.acm.org/digital-library/acm-guide-to-computing-literature). “The ACM Guide to Computing Literature is the most comprehensive bibliographic database in existence today focused exclusively on the field of computing, making this A&I service—which seamlessly integrates with ACM’s full-text articles—a true starting point for anyone looking to search and access computing’s rapidly growing archive. More than an index, the Guide to Computing Literature serves as the engine that drives the most exciting functionality of the ACM Digital Library, including features such as ACM Author Profile Pages, which includes bibliographic and bibliometric data for over 1,500,000 authors in the field of computer science, and the ACM Institutional Profile Pages, which includes bibliographic and bibliometric data for every academic, government, and industry organization publishing articles in the field.”
- AMS MathScinet ` !msc ` [“MathSciNet - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MathSciNet). English Wikipedia. “MathSciNet is a searchable online bibliographic database created by the American Mathematical Society in 1996. It contains all of the contents of the journal Mathematical Reviews (MR) since 1940 along with an extensive author database, links to other MR entries, citations, full journal entries, and links to original articles. It contains almost 3 million items and over 1.7 million links to original articles. Along with its parent publication Mathematical Reviews, MathSciNet has become an essential tool for researchers in the mathematical sciences. Access to the database is by subscription only and is not generally available to individual researchers who are not affiliated with a larger subscribing institution.” 
- Art of Problem Solving [Wiki] ` !aops ` [“Richard Rusczyk - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Rusczyk#The_Art_of_Problem_Solving). English Wikipedia. “In 1994, Rusczyk and Sandor Lehoczky wrote the Art of Problem Solving books, designed to prepare students for mathematical competitions by teaching them concepts and problem solving methods rarely taught in school. These books lent their name to the company he founded in 2003.After working for four years as a bond trader for D. E. Shaw & Co., Rusczyk created the Art of Problem Solving web site, which provides resources for middle and high school students to develop their mathematics and problem solving abilities. These include real-time competitions to solve math problems and on-line tools to learn how to solve problems with increasing difficulty as well as math forums. Rusczyk has also published the Art of Problem Solving series of books aimed at a similar audience. The site also provides fee-based online mathematics classes, which range from Prealgebra to Group Theory and Calculus.”
- Computer Science (Stack Exchange) ` !csse ` [“What topics can I ask about here?”](https://cs.stackexchange.com/help/on-topic). Computer Science Stack Exchange. “Computer Science Stack Exchange is for students, researchers and practitioners of computer science.Computer science, also sometimes called computing science, is the science of computation and its applications. This site covers theoretical and applied computer science at any level, including but not limited to: algorithms, models of computation;    programming language semantics, formal methods;    computer architecture, networks;    machine learning, artificial intelligence, knowledge representation, natural language processing;    vision, graphics.”
- Cross Validated (Stack Exchange) ` !crossvalidated ` [“What topics can I ask about here?”](https://stats.stackexchange.com/help/on-topic). Cross Validated. “CrossValidated is for statisticians, data miners, and anyone else doing data analysis or interested in it as a discipline. If you have a question about statistical analysis, applied or theoretical; designing experiments; collecting data; data mining; machine learning;    visualizing data;    probability theory;    mathematical statistics;    statistical and data-driven computing; then you're in the right place.”
- Göttinger Digitalsieriungszentrum ` !gdz ` [“Center for Retrospective Digitization - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Center_for_Retrospective_Digitization). English Wikipedia. “The Center for Retrospective Digitization in Göttingen (German: Göttinger DigitalisierungsZentrum, GDZ) is an online system for archiving academic journals maintained by the University of Göttingen.”
- hgpu.org ` !hgpu ` [“About”](https://hgpu.org/?page_id=2). hgpu.org. June 5, 2018. “hgpu.org is a resource for people who seek the possibility to accelerate their computations by means of Graphics Processing Units (GPU). The site contains links to reviews, tutorials, research papers, program packages concerning various aspects of graphics and non-graphics (general purpose computing) using of GPU and related parallel architectures (FPGA, Cell processors etc.). The site also collects and cataloged information about programming tools and modern hardware for development of GPU applications.” See the [tags](https://hgpu.org/?page_id=1109) page.
- IACR ` !iacr ` [“International Association for Cryptologic Research”](https://www.iacr.org/). “The International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR) is a non-profit scientific organization whose purpose is to further research in cryptology and related fields. Cryptology is the science and practice of designing computation and communication systems which are secure in the presence of adversaries.”
- Images des mathématiques ` !imaths ` [“Images des mathématiques — Wikipédia”](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Images_des_math%C3%A9matiques). Wikipedia. “Images des mathématiques (ou Images des maths) est un site web français édité par le CNRS et consacré à la vulgarisation en mathématiques. Il a pour but de montrer la diversité des mathématiques sous un aspect attractif. Il est sous-titré la recherche mathématique en mots et en images.”
- Inverse Symbolic Calculator ` !isc ` [“Inverse Symbolic Calculator Plus”](https://isc.carma.newcastle.edu.au/advanced). “The Inverse Symbolic Calculator (ISC) uses a combination of lookup tables and integer relation algorithms in order to associate a closed form representation with a user-defined, truncated decimal expansion (written as a floating point expression). The lookup tables include a substantial data set compiled by S. Plouffe both before and during his period as an employee at CECM.” 
- IXL ` !ixl ` [“IXL Learning - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IXL_Learning). English Wikipedia. “IXL Learning is an American educational technology company based in San Mateo, California. The company's main product is IXL.com, a website primarily offering educational practice for K-12 students.”
- Library Genesis ` !genlib ` [“Library Genesis - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_Genesis). English Wikipedia. “Library Genesis or LibGen is a search engine for articles and books on various topics, which allows free access to content that is otherwise paywalled or not digitized elsewhere. Among others, it carries PDFs of content from Elsevier's ScienceDirect web-portal.”
- Mathematical Association of America ` !maa ` [“MAA History Mathematical Association of America”](https://www.maa.org/about-maa/maa-history). “The MAA was established in 1915. But the roots of the Association can be traced to the 1894 founding of the American Mathematical Monthly by Benjamin Finkel, who wrote "Most of our existing journals deal almost exclusively with subjects beyond the reach of the average student or teacher of mathematics or at least with subjects with which they are familiar, and little, if any, space, is devoted to the solution of problems…No pains will be spared on the part of the Editors to make this the most interesting and most popular journal published in America."” Searches the MAA meetings, press/news, curriculum, and competitions.
- Mathematics (Stack Exchange) ` !mathse ` [“What topics can I ask about here? - Help Center”](https://math.stackexchange.com/help/on-topic). Mathematics Stack Exchange. “Mathematics Stack Exchange is for people studying mathematics at any level and professionals in related fields. We welcome questions about:    Understanding mathematical concepts and theorems.    Mathematical problems such as one might come across in a course or textbook. (First read our how to ask a good question page.)    Solving mathematical puzzles.    Software that mathematicians use (except Mathematica, which has its own Stack Exchange site).”
- MathOverflow ` !mathoverflow or !mo ` [“MathOverflow - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MathOverflow). English Wikipedia. “MathOverflow is a mathematics website, which serves both as a collaborative blog and an online community of mathematicians. It allows users to ask questions, submit answers, and rate both, all while getting merit points for their activities. It is a part of the Stack Exchange Network.It is primarily for asking questions on mathematics research – i.e. related to unsolved problems and the extension of knowledge of mathematics into areas that are not yet known – and does not welcome requests from non-mathematicians for instruction, for example homework exercises. It does welcome various questions on other topics that might normally be discussed among mathematicians, for example about publishing, refereeing, advising, getting tenure, etc. It is generally inhospitable to questions perceived as tendentious or argumentative. ”
- Matlab File Exchange `  !matlabfx ` Now-a-days one should try [awesome-MATLAB](https://github.com/mikecroucher/awesome-MATLAB): "A curated list of awesome MATLAB toolboxes, applications, software and resources." Mostly under BSD licensces. 
- NIST Digital Library of Mathematical Functions ` !dlmf ` [“DLMF”](https://www.nist.gov/publications/nist-digital-library-mathematical-functions). NIST. May 1, 2003. “NIST (formerly, National Bureau of Standards) has started an ambitious project that aims to produce a successor to Abramowitz and Stegun's Handbook of Mathematical Functions, published by the National Bureau of Standards in 1964 and reprinted by Dover in 1965. Both editions continue to sell briskly and are widely cited inthe scientific literature. However, with the many advances in the theory, computation and application of special functions that have occurred since 1960, a new standard reference is badly needed. NIST intends to satisfy this need by providing a Digital Library of Mathematical Functions (DLMF) as a free Web site together with an associated book and CD-ROM.”
- nLab ` !nl or !ncatlab ` [“nLab - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NLab). English Wikipedia. “The nLab is a wiki for research-level notes, expositions and collaborative work, including original research, in mathematics, physics, and philosophy, with a focus on methods from category theory and homotopy theory. The nLab espouses the "n-point of view" (a deliberate pun on Wikipedia's "neutral point of view") that category theory and particularly higher n-category theory provide a useful unifying viewpoint for mathematics, physics and philosophy. The nLab is listed on MathOverflow as a standard online mathematics reference to check before asking questions. Many questions and answers link to the nLab for background material. It is one of two wikis mentioned by the mathematical physicist John C. Baez in his review of math blogs for the American Mathematical Society.” 
- Physics Forums `  !physics ` [“About Physics Forums”](https://www.physicsforums.com/help/aboutus/). “Our goal is to provide a community for people (whether students, professional scientists, or hobbyists) to learn and discuss science as it is currently generally understood and practiced by the professional scientific community. As our name suggests, our main focus is on physics, but we also have forums for most other academic areas including engineering, chemistry, biology, social sciences, etc. Physics help along with math help and other sciences is available for students.”
- PlanetMath ` !planetmath ` [“PlanetMath.org”](http://planetmath.org/). “PlanetMath is a virtual community which aims to help make mathematical knowledge more accessible. PlanetMath's content is created collaboratively: the main feature is the mathematics encyclopedia with entries written and reviewed by members. The entries are contributed under the terms of the Creative Commons By/Share-Alike License in order to preserve the rights of authors, readers and other content creators in a sensible way. Entries are written in LaTeX, the lingua franca of the worldwide mathematical community. Articles are then rendered for presentation on the web using LaTeXML, and links between them are added using NNexus. As of 2018, source files are editable via planetmath's repositories on Github: acceptable pull requests will be merged by one of our Editors. The PlanetMath.org website is hosted by the University of Waterloo Faculty of Mathematics. PlanetMath.org, Ltd., is a 501(c)3 nonprofit, incorporated in Alexandria, Virginia, USA.”
- Proof Wiki ` !proof ` [“ProofWiki:About”](https://proofwiki.org/wiki/ProofWiki:About). “ProofWiki is dedicated to providing a place where people can take their knowledge of math proofs and share it online. Anyone can add or edit articles on math proofs from any field of mathematics. ProofWiki was started in April 2008, and is maintained by Joe with the help of Alec Cooper, prime.mover and Lord_Farin.”
- SageMath Documentation ` !sage ` [“SageMath Mathematical Software System”](https://www.sagemath.org/library.html). “The SageMath Standard Documentation includes the whole SageMath documentation in HTML and PDF formats: installation, construction of statements, reference manual, etc.”
- The Complexity Zoo ` !cz `  [“Complexity Zoo Introduction - Complexity Zoo”](https://complexityzoo.uwaterloo.ca/Zoo_Intro). “The sprawling web of known relations among complexity classes - containments, oracle separations, random oracle separations, lowness results, the occasional inequality - is not fixed in my memory like the English language. And so it's largely for my own benefit that I recorded a chunk of what's known in one unwieldy HTML file.The second audience is other theorists and theory students, who might find the Zoo to have a few advantages as a reference. First, inspired by Eric Weisstein's famed World of Mathematics, it links liberally between entries. Second, it can be updated regularly - much of its current content is not yet in any book as far as I know. Third, it takes a democratic approach to complexity classes, with big hitters like NP listed alongside the lesser-known mAL, PODN, and QACC0. Any class is fair game so long as something nontrivial has been said about it in the literature.”
- The Online Encyclopedia Of Integer Sequences ` !seq ` [“On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/On-Line_Encyclopedia_of_Integer_Sequences). English Wikipedia. “The On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences (OEIS), also cited simply as Sloane's, is an online database of integer sequences. It was created and maintained by Neil Sloane while a researcher at AT&T Labs.”
- Wolfram Mathematica Reference ` !wlr ` [“Wolfram Mathematica - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfram_Mathematica). English Wikipedia. “Wolfram Mathematica (usually termed Mathematica) is a modern technical computing system spanning most areas of technical computing — including neural networks, machine learning, image processing, geometry, data science, visualizations, and others. The system is used in many technical, scientific, engineering, mathematical, and computing fields. It was conceived by Stephen Wolfram and is developed by Wolfram Research of Champaign, Illinois.The Wolfram Language is the programming language used in Mathematica.”
- Wolfram MathWorld ` !mathworld ` [“MathWorld - Wikipedia”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MathWorld). English Wikipedia. “MathWorld is an online mathematics reference work, created and largely written by Eric W. Weisstein. It is sponsored by and licensed to Wolfram Research, Inc. and was partially funded by the National Science Foundation's National Science Digital Library grant to the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. ”
- Zentralblatt MATH Database ` !zbmath ` [“zbMATH”](https://zbmath.org/about/). “Zentralblatt MATH (zbMATH) is the world’s most comprehensive and longest-running abstracting and reviewing service in pure and applied mathematics. It is edited by the European Mathematical Society (EMS), the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences and Humanities and FIZ Karlsruhe. zbMATH provides easy access to bibliographic data, reviews and abstracts from all areas of pure mathematics as well as applications, in particular to natural sciences, computer science, economics and engineering. It also covers history and philosophy of mathematics and university education. All entries are classified according to the Mathematics Subject Classification Scheme (MSC 2010) and are equipped with keywords in order to characterize their particular content.”

