---
title: Personal Website TODO
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2017-12-17 
modified: 2017-12-31
---

## Pages to create

- I like Issa's "projects" page, sketching out potential projects and their expected time consumption. 
- which means clearing out *my own* "projects" page. These should be individual notes.
- a page analogous to Paul Hand's [statement on teaching and learning](http://www.caam.rice.edu/~hand/docs/statement_teaching_learning_2013.pdf) 
	- P Allman
	- G Polya
	- Moore
- Olympia geography?
	- include bike routes?
- an automated external mirror? 
	- wikipedia? (would like to be active)
	- stack exchange? (not very active)
	- twitter (why?)
	- see discussion on comments (fb?)
	- hypemachine (nope, I will just choose 5 -- 6 songs from the quarter and post them).

That's about all I'm willing to share now. The music I'm listening to, course reviews (linked to their respective noisey notebooks), and my contact information.

## post template

Forewarned that the message is in the medium, I *do* want some templates to control the "noise" of irrelevant notanda. 

90% of writing is shit. How can I structure posts to prioritize strong signals? 

For courses, my template now includes 
- subject
- instructor, text, and links thereto
- motivation
- link to nbviewer
- see also

I think each course review should fit onto a single screen. Ideally, at the conclusion of the course, I can leave a link to my favorite worked example.

Most of the noise should stay buried in my [notebooks]() repo.

## Tools to use

- [pygments](http://pygments.org/)
- citewebgen
- a static page builder that's not jekyll?
	- hakyll (later)
	- opg.me meta data?

## Comments?

- If I get comments, what's my timeline? I dunno, prolly before starting in school/work.
- how about just accepting feedback?
- I think [Jeff Kaufman's setup](https://www.jefftk.com/p/external-comment-integration-rewrite) for comments is neat. Could implement if I buy server space.
	- would also need to get back on fb (don't want)
	- *some concern for privacy*? See [Comments are now first names](https://www.jefftk.com/p/comments-are-now-first-names)
	- could also just use google groups
	- I *do* want informal feedbac (at the risk of quotidianity)
	- here's Jeff's [webscripts repo](https://github.com/jeffkaufman/webscripts/blob/master/README) 
	
## Community?

figure out how to credit people I'm pulling info from?

- write a new post on their topic?
	- rather on their content, then cite them
- create some sort of "people" log?
	- done this with the "see also" page. I want to keep it up to snuff, but not overwhelming.
- join a online community (like LW, stack exchange, etc and just accept that I'm following them?)
	- besides twitter, stack exchange, and wikipedia, I don't really want to make the time investment. There's an abundance of older literature that's more accessible to me if I keep away from the bleeding edge of web development.
- implement open graph meta data
	- <https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/o/open-graph.htm>

## categories 

are these premature? won't they morph a bit? atleast I don't feel that it's too hard to post.

### now

- data-management
- service-work
- computing
- math
- writing
- personal

### later

As soon as possible, I'm going to, remove all tags and rely on page revision dates. But for now the tages keep me on topic.  

I think Issa handles this by including the date sort filters to bring up posts that are most recent. 

I am usually interested in what folks wrote first, then reading until I get an feeling of continuity between their initial posts and their current professed intersts.

Other tags

- administrivia?
	- I'd like to get the grad school applications out of sight. I think the "research-interest" URL is salvagable, but I want to set aside content for archive.
	- My applications could be resources for other folks. At the same time, The dept overviews and my personal statement will be largely meaningless to me once I'm at a university.
- research
- ecology
- place based knowledge
